[SCREEN: README.md open in VS Code, scrolled to the top]

Hey everyone. I want to walk you through the gpsfake NMEA integration test we added to the nmea_gnss_driver component.

The goal here is straightforward: we need to validate that our CATS testing infrastructure can work with real NMEA data — not hardcoded strings, but actual GPS sentences generated by gpsfake, which is a standard GPS simulator from the gpsd project.

[SCREEN: Scroll to Architecture diagram]

Here's the setup. We have two Docker containers on a shared bridge network. On the left, the CATS container — this is our test runner. It's built on top of the test-automation-env image version 1.3.3, and we extended it by installing gpsd-clients, which gives us the gpsfake binary. On the right, dev-env — this runs two echo servers, one on TCP port 8000 and one on UDP port 8001.

The containers communicate over a bridge network on the 172.21.0.0/24 subnet. CATS sits at .11, dev-env at .10.

[SCREEN: Scroll to How It Works]

Let me walk you through how a test runs.

First, we build the CATS image. The Dockerfile extends the base CATS image and runs an install script that adds gpsd and gpsd-clients — that's what puts the gpsfake binary inside the container.

Then we bring up the environment with docker compose. Dev-env starts both echo servers as background processes and stays alive. A healthcheck makes sure everything is ready before the CATS container starts.

When we execute the test, here's what happens inside the CATS container: the test actor starts gpsfake with an NMEA dataset file. This dataset contains real GPS sentences — GGA, RMC, GSA — representing a stationary receiver at Caterpillar HQ in Peoria, Illinois.

Once gpsfake is running, the actor verifies the process is alive, reads the first NMEA sentence from the dataset, sends it over TCP — or UDP, depending on the scenario — to the dev-env echo server, and then asserts that the response matches exactly what was sent.

After each scenario, a cleanup hook stops the gpsfake process so there are no orphan processes left behind.

[SCREEN: Switch to terminal]

Let me show you this running live. I'll build the image, bring up the containers, and execute the test.

[TYPE: docker compose build cats]

This builds the CATS image with gpsfake installed.

[TYPE: docker compose up -d — wait for healthy]

Both containers are up. Dev-env is healthy.

[TYPE: docker exec nmea-gnss-driver-cats-testing cats -s config/gpsfake_nmea.xml -pr gherkin -t tests/gherkin_group/gpsfake_nmea/gpsfake_nmea_test.feature]

And there it is — two scenarios, both passing. The first one sends an NMEA sentence over TCP, the second one over UDP. Both validate the echo matches.

[SCREEN: Back to README, scroll to Configuration table]

Everything is configurable through a single XML file. Host, ports, dataset directory — if you need to change anything, you edit the config, not the code.

[SCREEN: Scroll to Project Structure]

To summarize what was created: we have a dataset file with real NMEA sentences, a Python controller that manages the gpsfake process, a CATS actor that implements the Gherkin steps, a system class for configuration, an XML config, and the feature file with the two test scenarios. On the Docker side, we updated the install script to add gpsd-clients and fixed the base image version in the Dockerfile.

This gives us a foundation for NMEA testing within CATS. The infrastructure is in place, gpsfake is validated as working inside the container, and we have end-to-end network communication with real GPS data between the two containers.

Thanks for watching.
